---
# Core Classification
protocol: Metamask Delegation Framework
chain: everychain
category: uncategorized
vulnerability_type: unknown

# Attack Vector Details
attack_type: unknown
affected_component: smart_contract

# Source Information
source: solodit
solodit_id: 43641
audit_firm: ConsenSys
contest_link: none
source_link: https://diligence.consensys.io/audits/2024/08/metamask-delegation-framework/
github_link: none

# Impact Classification
severity: high
impact: security_vulnerability
exploitability: 0.00
financial_impact: high

# Scoring
quality_score: 0
rarity_score: 0

# Context Tags
tags:

# Audit Details
report_date: unknown
finders_count: 2
finders:
  -  François Legué
                        
  - Rai Yang
---

## Vulnerability Title

Open Delegations Combined With NativeTokenPaymentEnforcer Are Not Protected Against Front-Running ✓ Fixed

### Overview


The bug report discusses an issue with the Delegator framework, specifically with the `NativeTokenPaymentEnforcer` enforcer. This enforcer is used to ensure that a delegate pays to redeem a delegation. However, there is a vulnerability that allows a malicious actor to front-run the payment and use the delegation for their own actions.

The bug is caused by the `ArgsEqualityCheckEnforcer` enforcer, which checks the delegation hash and the redeemer. This prevents an external actor from front-running the payment when executing a delegation. However, this only works when the delegation is restricted to a specific delegate. In the case of open delegations, where anyone can redeem the delegation, the `delegate` field will always be the same value, making it easy for a malicious actor to front-run the payment.

To fix this issue, the recommendation is to ensure that the consumer of the delegation is the current redeemer. This can be done by using the `redeemer` parameter of the `afterHook` function of the `NativeTokenPaymentEnforcer` enforcer. This will prevent anyone else from using the delegation for their own actions.

The bug has been fixed in [PR16](https://github.com/MetaMask/delegation-framework/pull/16).

### Original Finding Content

#### Resolution



Fixed in [PR16](https://github.com/MetaMask/delegation-framework/pull/16).


`ArgsEqualityCheckEnforcer` enforcer terms contain the delegation hash and the redeemer. This prevents an external actor from front\-running the payment when executing a delegation.




#### Description


The `NativeTokenPaymentEnforcer` is an enforcer that, combined with a delegation `D1`, ensures a `delegate` pays to redeem `D1`. The `delegate` that redeems the delegation `D1` must include in the arguments of this enforcer a delegation `D2` to the `NativeTokenPaymentEnforcer` itself. It will give the right to the enforcer to pull the amount specified in the first place in the terms of the `NativeTokenPaymentEnforcer` to exercise the delegation `D1`.


To prevent front\-running and the use of the second delegation `D2` by a malicious actor who inspects the mempool, the usage of the `ArgsEqualityCheckEnforcer`  enforcer is recommended with `terms` being the `delegationHash` of the first delegation `D1`. This will ensure that the delegation that is being paid for with the delegation `D2` is the delegation `D1`.
While this works well when the delegation `D1` is restricted to a specific delegate, it is not sufficient in the case of open delegations.


The Delegator framework offers the possibility to create an open delegation. The purpose of an open delegation is that it can be redeemed by anyone.


The problem is that the computed `delegationHash`, is based on the fields of the delegation structure and the enforcers terms. However, in case of an open delegation, the `delegate` field will contain the same value (`ANY_DELEGATE`) regardless of who is currently redeeming the delegation.


The `DelegationManager` contract will accept the redeem from anyone when the delegation `delegate` field is `ANY_DELEGATE`.


**src/DelegationManager.sol:L154**



```
if (delegations_[0].delegate != msg.sender && delegations_[0].delegate != ANY_DELEGATE) {

```
In such a scenario, anyone using `D1` would share the same `delegationHash` in the arguments. Consequently, someone could watch the mempool and front\-run a legitimate redeem by leveraging the delegation `D2`. The attacker would be able to execute his own action with the delegation `D1` but use the delegation `D2` (which was generated by someone else) to pay the right to exercise it.


#### Recommendation


Ensure that the consumer of the delegation `D2` (also known as immediate delegator) is the current redeemer of the delegation `D1`.
This could be done using the `redeemer` parameter of the `afterHook` function of the `NativeTokenPaymentEnforcer`  enforcer.

### Metadata

| Field | Value |
|-------|-------|
| Impact | HIGH |
| Quality Score | 0/5 |
| Rarity Score | 0/5 |
| Audit Firm | ConsenSys |
| Protocol | Metamask Delegation Framework |
| Report Date | N/A |
| Finders |  François Legué
                        , Rai Yang |

### Source Links

- **Source**: https://diligence.consensys.io/audits/2024/08/metamask-delegation-framework/
- **GitHub**: N/A
- **Contest**: N/A

### Keywords for Search

`vulnerability`

